week1_docker_gcp_terraform/1_terraform_gcp/command_note.md, before:

## Setup SSH
### Create .ssh folder
mkdir ~/.ssh

### Create SSH keys for google cloud
```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ~/.ssh/gcp -C gabrielle -b 2048 
``` 
--> return two keys: gcp (private key) and gcp.pub (public key)   
--> public key to lock the VM, and privaye key to unlock the VM

### Upload the SSH key to Metadata under Compute Engine
cat gcp.pub
--> paste the output in SSH Keys box
--> to lock the VM

### Connect SSH and VM
```bash
ssh -i ~/.ssh/gcp gabrielle@<external_ip_address>
```
--> unlock the VM on your local machine

### Create Config File
```bash
cd ~/.ssh
touch config
```

### Config File
```bash
Host <ssh-name>
    HostName <external_ip_address>
    User gabrielle
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/gcp
```

## Install Packages
### Install Anaconda
```bash
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2021.11-Linux-x86_64.sh 
bash Anaconda3-2021.11-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
### Apply Changes in `.bashrc`
```bash
source .bashrc
```
--> 这个command的作用在于，让当前终端重新加载`.bashrc`文件内的所有设置，无需关闭或者重启终端

### Login to SSH
```bash
ssh de-zoocamp
```

### Logout from SSH
```bash
ctrl + D
#or
type logout
```

### Shut Down SSH
```bash
sudo shutdown now
```

### Download Docker
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker.io
```
The following command allows us to run docker without `sudo`
```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo gpasswd -a $USER docker
sudo service docker restart
logout #Logout and login back again will aplly the changes we made
ssh de-zoomcamp
```
### Download Docker Compose
To organize executable files, you can create a `bin` folder and place docker-compose package inside
```bash
mkdir bin
cd bin/
```
Download and rename the docker-compose file
```bash
wget https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.2.3/docker-compose-linux-x86_64 -O docker-compose
```
Make the file executable
```bash
chmod +x docker-compose
```

### Add command in .bashrc file
1. 这个指令的好处在于，将bin下面可执行的包全部加入到PATH里，以后运行这些包就不需要cd到它存储的位置了
2. 在添加完export指令后，跑source .bashrc可以刷新.bashrc file，使更改立即生效
3. 更改完后，`ctrl + O`存储更改，`Enter`确认文件名，`ctrl + X`退出文件

```bash
nano/vim .bashrc
export PATH="${HOME}/bin:${PATH}"
source .bashrc
```

### Fix Error for Pgcopg Import Issue
```bash
sudo apt-get install python-dev libpq-dev libevent-dev
pip install pgcli
```

### Google Cloud CLI
Assign the service account private key to `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=~/.gc/my-creds.json
```
Authenticate to service account with credential
```bash
gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS
```


### Port
在ssh上启动了docker compose, 并且把port添加至vscode port界面，使port映射到localhost,那么在本地docker compose休眠或关闭状态，也可连接到ssh的docker compose中的postgres and pgAdmin.

Commit message:

update week1 command note and add new content to week5

week1_docker_gcp_terraform/1_terraform_gcp/command_note.md, after:

## Setup SSH
### Create .ssh folder
mkdir ~/.ssh

### Create SSH keys for google cloud
```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ~/.ssh/gcp -C gabrielle -b 2048 
``` 
--> return two keys: gcp (private key) and gcp.pub (public key)   
--> public key to lock the VM, and privaye key to unlock the VM

### Upload the SSH key to Metadata under Compute Engine
cat gcp.pub
--> paste the output in SSH Keys box
--> to lock the VM

### Connect SSH and VM
```bash
ssh -i ~/.ssh/gcp gabrielle@<external_ip_address>
```
--> unlock the VM on your local machine

### Create Config File
```bash
cd ~/.ssh
touch config
```

### Config File
```bash
Host <ssh-name>
    HostName <external_ip_address>
    User gabrielle
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/gcp
```

## Install Packages
### Install Anaconda
```bash
wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2021.11-Linux-x86_64.sh 
bash Anaconda3-2021.11-Linux-x86_64.sh
```
### Apply Changes in `.bashrc`
```bash
source .bashrc
```
--> 这个command的作用在于，让当前终端重新加载`.bashrc`文件内的所有设置，无需关闭或者重启终端

### Login to SSH
```bash
ssh de-zoocamp
```

### Logout from SSH
```bash
ctrl + D
#or
type logout
```

### Shut Down SSH
```bash
sudo shutdown now
```

### Download Docker
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install docker.io
```
The following command allows us to run docker without `sudo`
```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo gpasswd -a $USER docker
sudo service docker restart
logout #Logout and login back again will aplly the changes we made
ssh de-zoomcamp
```
### Download Docker Compose
To organize executable files, you can create a `bin` folder and place docker-compose package inside
```bash
mkdir bin
cd bin/
```
Download and rename the docker-compose file
```bash
wget https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.2.3/docker-compose-linux-x86_64 -O docker-compose
```
Make the file executable
```bash
chmod +x docker-compose
```

### Add command in .bashrc file
1. 这个指令的好处在于，将bin下面可执行的包全部加入到PATH里，以后运行这些包就不需要cd到它存储的位置了
2. 在添加完export指令后，跑source .bashrc可以刷新.bashrc file，使更改立即生效
3. 更改完后，`ctrl + O`存储更改，`Enter`确认文件名，`ctrl + X`退出文件

```bash
nano/vim .bashrc
export PATH="${HOME}/bin:${PATH}"
source .bashrc
```

### Fix Error for Pgcopg Import Issue
```bash
sudo apt-get install python-dev libpq-dev libevent-dev
pip install pgcli
```

### Google Cloud CLI
- Move credential json file from local machine to google cloud
```bash
cd ~/.google/credentials/ # Locate the json file
sftp de-zoomcamp # Connect to Google VM
mkdir ~/.google/credentials/
put google_credentials.json # Upload json file to cloud
```
- Assign the service account private key (`.json`) to `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`
- Add command to `.bashrc`
```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=~/.google/credentials/google_credentials.json
```
- Authenticate and connect to service account with credential
```bash
gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS
```


### Port
在ssh上启动了docker compose, 并且把port添加至vscode port界面，使port映射到localhost,那么在本地docker compose休眠或关闭状态，也可连接到ssh的docker compose中的postgres and pgAdmin.
